---
title: 00 About
layout: coursebook
---
# About the Course.

## Schedule

For every active week there is a corresponding coursebook page, called Blocks 01-11, which you can access in the [Coursebook](../coursebook.md).

The content is split into:

* **Offline activities**. These are:
  * Lecture videos: **Lectures** for [Theory](#Theory), and **Workshop Lectures** for [Practice](#Practice).
  * Preparation: Activities that you do **before** interaction time.
  * Mastery: Activities that you do **after** interaction time. These are principally **Assessments** but also include completing **Worksheets**.
* **Interactive elements**. These are:
  * [Workshop Activities](#Practice) that we work through as a class as part of practicals.
  * [Office Hours](#Theory) in which we discuss the **Worksheets** solidify your knowledge of [Theory](#Theory).

### Content for Theory <a name="Theory"></a>

* Lectures
  * Lectures are videos for you to watch at your own pace. They are narrated slideshows. You should watch these **before** the corresponding workshop and reflect on them.
* Worksheets
  * Worksheets contain questions with exam-like content, designed to help you master the lecture content.

### Content for Practice <a name="Practice"></a>

* Preparation
* Preparation is work that you must attempt to do before the workshop. **It is essential** that you do this, because without it, you will often not be able to interact with the content properly.
* Workshops
  * Workshops have two components:
	1. Workshop Lectures are videos for you to watch own pace. They are narrated interactive coding sessions. You should watch these before the corresponding workshop.
	2. Workshop Activities are explained in these Workshop Videos. We will do this workshop activity together in a live session.
* [Assessments](../assessments.md)
  * Assessments are month-long group projects, allowing a deep-delve into a specific area of Data Science applied to Cyber Security.

## Timing and content

Content will be made available at least 1 week prior to the scheduled week for the Block in the [Timetable](../timetable.md).

## Updated material - versioning

All material has versioning information included. The version used for Lectures may have contained minor issues which will be updated; you will know if this has happened through the updated version. The content starts at v1.0.1 in the format `v<major>.<minor>.<bugfix>`. Bugfix version changes should not require attention; minor changes may affect some small aspect of the content, whilst you will receive clear signposting for major changes where the structure and intent may also have changed.

## Navigation

Next: [Block 01](01.md).

