---
title: 01 Introduction
layout: coursebook
---

# 01 Introduction

Welcome to Data Science Toolbox!

This week we will prepare you for your Data Science Journey. It is essential that you **prepare before contact time**. That means:

* Watch and reflect on the Lectures;
* Look at the worksheets and think about the questions; as a minimum, make notes on how you might go about answering them;
* Most importantly, **look at the Workshop content** and do the **pre-preparation** for it.

The first two blocks demand the most work to allow you to hit the ground running. There is less content in future blocks, with a corresponding increased amount of time for group assessments.

### Overview:

In Block 01, we cover:

* What is Data Science Toolbox?
  * Use of Group Assessments.
* What is Data Science?
* An overview of Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA).
  * Exploratory Data Analysis with R.
* Setting up a basic Data Science Environment with Rstudio
  * NB: We cover Python starting Block 06.
  * Using Git (via GitHub Desktop) for collaborative projects.
* How to work with Cyber security data

## Lectures:

* [{{ site.data.vid01.v0100.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v0100.url }})
* [{{ site.data.vid01.v0101.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v0101.url }})
  * [Slides]({{ site.data.block01.s0101-Intro.url }})
* [{{ site.data.vid01.v0102.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v0102.url }})
  * [Slides]({{ site.data.block01.s0102-EDA.url }})
  * [Reference R code]({{ site.data.block01.c0101-EDA.url }}) (NB: See 1.3.1 for explanation)

## Worksheets:

* [Worksheet 1.2 Exploratory Data Analysis]({{ site.data.block01.ws02.url }}) 

## Preparation:

* Everyone needs to have followed the Block 01 preparation given in [Appendix 1](appendix1-prep.md).
* Specifically, you must have installed Rstudio and Github Desktop, and seen the appropriate training content.
* You cannot properly use the interaction time unless you have done this preparation **in advance**!

## Workshop:

In the workshop, we will be discussing how to collaborate and work together remotely. We will then discuss Exploratory Data Analysis in practice.

* [{{ site.data.vid01.v0301.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v0301.url }})
  * [Rmd for 1.3.1 Introduction to R Studio]({{ site.data.block01.c0103-EDA.url }}) 
* [{{ site.data.vid01.v0302.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v0302.url }})
  * [Rmd for 1.3.2 Exploratory Data Analysis R markdown]({{ site.data.block01.s0103-EDA.url }}) 
* 1.3.3 Workshop Lecture on Assessments, split into the following parts:
  - [{{ site.data.vid01.v030301.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v030301.url }})
  - [{{ site.data.vid01.v030302.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v030302.url }})
  - [{{ site.data.vid01.v030303.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v030303.url }})
  - [{{ site.data.vid01.v030304.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v030304.url }})
  - [{{ site.data.vid01.v030305.text }}]({{ site.data.vid01.v030305.url }})

## Workshop Activity:

Before the workshop, you will have attempted to understand the Workshop content. This workshop will discuss difficulties encountered during this content.

## Assessments:

* The [Example Assessment](https://github.com/dsbristol/dst_example_project) should be carefully examined.
*  [Assessment 0]({{ site.data.assessment0.url }}) will be set in this week; see [Assessments](../assessments.md). This is a formative assessment (i.e. does not contribute to your grade) and will be due in Week 3.

## References:

The main references are:

* [The GitHub Appendix](appendix4-github.md)
* The [Beginning Git](https://chryswoods.com/beginning_git/index.html) tutorial for Command Line Git.

### Data Sources:

We use the following Cyber Security Data Sources:
	* Bro log data from [Secrepo](http://www.secrepo.com/Datasets%20Description/HTML_Bro_log_1/conn.html)
	* This can be loaded into R in a nice form with a [script](https://github.com/dsbristol/dst/blob/master/code/loadconndata.R) ([raw](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dsbristol/dst/master/code/loadconndata.R)) that can be run directly from R using `source https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dsbristol/dst/master/code/loadconndata.R`.
	* The [KDD99](http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup99.html) dataset, which was created for a competition with a [task specification](http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/task.html). We normally use the [10%](http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup.data_10_percent.gz) and [column names](http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/databases/kddcup99/kddcup.names) files, which you can download directly.

## Navigation

Previous: [About the Course (Block 00)](00.md).
Next: [Block 02](02.md).

